



                               THE SECOND
                             ADVENTURES OF
                             UNCLE WIGGILY
                       THE BUNNY RABBIT GENTLEMAN
                    AND HIS MUSKRAT LADY HOUSEKEEPER


                           BY HOWARD R. GARIS

                              PICTURES BY
                             LANG CAMPBELL

[Illustration]

                        CHARLES E. GRAHAM & CO.
                     © NEWARK, N.J.  ::  NEW YORK.




                             COPYRIGHT 1925
                                   BY
                        CHARLES E. GRAHAM & CO.

[Illustration: Logo]

                           _Made in U. S. A._




[Illustration]

THE SECOND ADVENTURES OF UNCLE WIGGILY AND HIS MUSKRAT LADY HOUSEKEEPER


“Hurray! Hurrah!” cried Uncle Wiggily in his hollow stump bungalow one
day, as he twinkled his pink nose and danced around with his red, white
and blue striped rheumatism crutch that Nurse Jane Fuzzy Wuzzy had
gnawed out of a cornstalk. “Why are you so joyful?” asked the muskrat
lady housekeeper. “Because it will soon be Thanksgiving,” answered the
bunny rabbit gentleman, “and you will make me a pumpkin pie.” Nurse Jane
laughed and said: “I’ll make you a pie if you will get me the pumpkin.”
Uncle Wiggily danced again and said: “I’m going to hop along now and
find one. I’ll ask Uncle Butter, the goat, or some of my friends, to go
with me. I’ll take a wheelbarrow in which to give the pumpkin a ride.”
Nurse Jane told Uncle Wiggily to bring a large pumpkin, and he said he
would. “I feel so jolly, because Thanksgiving is coming, that my
rheumatism is cured!” he cried. “I will not need my crutch.” So he left
his crutch on the piano and started off with the wheelbarrow. “I hope
you have a funny adventure,” said Nurse Jane.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Uncle Wiggily had not hopped very far, trundling his wheelbarrow, before
he reached a field where grew many golden, yellow pumpkins. “Ah ha!”
joyfully cried the bunny, “one of these will be just what I want for
Nurse Jane to make a pie.” Uncle Wiggily rolled a large pumpkin up on
the wheelbarrow and started back to his hollow stump bungalow. Just as
he reached the house where Uncle Butter, the goat gentleman lived, the
rabbit bumped the wheelbarrow into a stone. “Oh, dear!” sighed the
bunny, “it’s broken!” Uncle Butter, looking over the fence, said:
“That’s too bad! But never mind. We can put a stick through the pumpkin,
fasten a rope to the stick and roll the pumpkin home.” They started up
hill, pulling the pumpkin. “This is hard work!” cried Uncle Wiggily.
They were nearly at the top of the hill when something happened. All of
a sudden the pumpkin broke loose.

[Illustration: ALL OF A SUDDEN THE PUMPKIN BROKE LOOSE.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Down the hill rolled the golden, yellow Thanksgiving vegetable. “Ouch!
Did you bump your nose?” asked Uncle Wiggily of his friend the goat. “I
certainly did!” bleated Uncle Butter. “But never mind! Jump up! We must
chase after that pumpkin if Nurse Jane is to make it into a pie.” Down
the hill raced Uncle Wiggily and Uncle Butter. Before they could get
hold of it, the pumpkin rolled into a clump of grass and stopped.
“There! We don’t need to chase it any more,” said Uncle Wiggily. “I’m
glad of it,” bleated the goat. “Let’s sit down on the log and rest.”
Before they knew it Uncle Butter and Uncle Wiggily were fast asleep.
Then along came Curly and Floppy Twistytail, the piggie boys. “Let’s
make a Jack o’ Lantern out of this pumpkin!” grunted Floppy. With their
knives the little pigs carved a face on the pumpkin. They set the Jack
o’ Lantern on a funny old stump. Then a Squiggle Bug tickled Uncle
Wiggily awake.

[Illustration: THE SQUIGGLE BUG TICKLED UNCLE WIGGILY AWAKE.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

“Ker-choo! Ker-choo!” sneezed Uncle Wiggily as he felt the tickling of
the Squiggle Bug. At first the rabbit gentleman did not know where he
was. Then, when he saw Uncle Butter sleeping beside him, he remembered.
By this time Curly and Floppy had stopped dancing around the funny Jack
o’ Lantern Goblin, and saw Uncle Wiggily and Mr. Butter over by the log.
“Ohee-e-e!” squealed Floppy. “Maybe that was Uncle Wiggily’s pumpkin!
And we cut it! He may be angry! We’d better run!” Away ran the piggie
boys. Then Uncle Wiggily, opening his eyes wider, saw the funny Goblin
Jack o’ Lantern pumpkin. He hardly knew what it was. “Quick, Uncle
Butter!” cried the rabbit. “We must get away from the Goblin!” Off they
ran, but they met the Alligator who chased them. “Let’s run back toward
the Goblin!” whispered Mr. Longears. “Maybe it will scare the
Alligator!” And it did, for the frightened Alligator jumped up and ran
away.

[Illustration: THE FRIGHTENED ALLIGATOR JUMPED UP AND RAN AWAY.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

“Aren’t you glad we made a Jack o’ Lantern out of the pumpkin?” squealed
the piggie boys. “Indeed I am!” said Uncle Wiggily. The next day Nurse
Jane made some pumpkin pies, and Curly and Floppy each had a piece. It
was a few weeks after this, near Christmas time, that Uncle Wiggily made
himself an ice boat out of a wash tub, a board and two sleds. “Come
ice-boating with me, Nurse Jane!” he called to his muskrat lady
housekeeper. “The lake is frozen and we shall have a fine ride.” Miss
Fuzzy Wuzzy dressed warmly, for it was a cold day, and Uncle Wiggily
helped her to a seat in the wash tub. Away they glided. They had not
gone far when the wind blew harder. The ice boat tilted up in the air.
“Oh, I am falling out!” cried Nurse Jane. “Don’t be afraid!” called
Uncle Wiggily. Mrs. Twistytail started across the ice. “Don’t bump into
her!” begged Nurse Jane. But, oh, dear! The ice boat knocked the lady
pig off her feet.

[Illustration: THE ICE BOAT KNOCKED THE LADY PIG OFF HER FEET.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

“Oh, Mrs. Twistytail, I am so sorry to have bumped into you!” cried
Uncle Wiggily, as he hopped out of the wash tub ice boat. He helped the
lady pig to her feet. “Are you hurt?” asked the bunny gentleman. “Oh,
no, not much!” laughed Mrs. Twistytail. “It’s a good thing I am so fat!
Being bumped doesn’t hurt me.” Nurse Jane invited the lady pig to have a
ride in the ice boat. “Yes, please get in and I will give you a fine
ride,” said Uncle Wiggily. So Mrs. Twistytail got in the wash tub,
though it was rather crowded. But, with all that, they were having a
jolly time, until, all of a sudden, Nurse Jane pointed and called:
“There’s a traffic police dog, and he has turned the ‘Stop’ sign against
us!” The police dog barked: “Look out! The ice is broken!” Uncle Wiggily
saw it, and steered the boat up in the air. Mrs. Twistytail was spilled
out, but, just then along below her, ran her piggie boys with their
sled. “Sit on our sled, Mother!” they grunted.

[Illustration: “SIT ON OUR SLED, MOTHER!” GRUNTED THE PIGGIE BOYS.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

With a thump and a bump, the lady pig sat down on the sled pulled by
Curly and Floppy. “Sit still, Mother!” grunted Curly, “brother and I are
going to give you a fine ride!” Mrs. Twistytail laughed, “Do you think
you can pull me?” she asked. “Oh, of course we can!” squealed Floppy.
“See, there go Uncle Wiggily and Nurse Jane! The ice boat has turned
into an airship, I guess. Maybe Uncle Wiggily will sail down and we can
all get in the wash tub!” The lady pig squealed: “Oh, no! no! I’ve had
enough of ice boats! Take me to shore and build a fire, piggie boys!”
While they were doing this, Uncle Wiggily and Nurse Jane sailed along in
the ice boat airship until, all of a sudden, they saw, on the ice below,
the Fox and Wolf waiting for them. “Oh, Uncle Wiggily!” cried Nurse
Jane, “the bad chaps will get us!” Uncle Wiggily dangled the sharp
anchor of his boat over the side. “Now watch what happens,” he whispered
to Nurse Jane.

[Illustration: SAFE ON SHORE. THE PIGGIE BOYS BUILT A WARM FIRE.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

While Mrs. Twistytail and the piggie boys were getting warm at the camp
fire, Uncle Wiggily and Nurse Jane were sailing along in the ice boat
airship, with the dangling anchor. Nearer and nearer they sailed to the
Fox and Wolf. “Come down, Uncle Wiggily!” growled the Wolf. “Yes, come
down so we can nibble your ears!” barked the Fox. “As if I would be so
foolish as to do that!” laughed the bunny. Then, suddenly, he steered
the washtub down a bit. The dingling-dangling anchor caught in the
clothes of the Fox and Wolf, lifting them off their feet. “Stop! Stop!”
howled the bad chaps. Uncle Wiggily turned around and sailed back toward
the dark, cold water where the ice was cracked. “It is time you had a
bath!” cried Uncle Wiggily. He cut the rope. Into the water fell the Fox
and Wolf. “Ha! Ha!” laughed the police dog. “It serves them right. Ho!
Ho!” Then Uncle Wiggily and his friends had a coffee picnic.

[Illustration: THEN UNCLE WIGGILY AND HIS FRIENDS HAD A COFFEE PICNIC.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

When Uncle Wiggily, Nurse Jane and the others reached home, after the
ice boat ride, the rabbit gentleman said: “We had lots of fun. But we
shall have more jolly times when spring comes and the grass is green.”
After many months, the warm sun melted the ice and snow, and the trees
put forth their leaves. “Ting-a-ling-a-ling!” rang the telephone in
Uncle Wiggily’s hollow stump bungalow one day. “Hello! Hello!” called
Uncle Butter, the goat, at the other end of the wire. “Don’t you want to
come with me to have a picnic in the woods, Uncle Wiggily?” bleated the
goat. “Surely I do,” said Mr. Longears. Nurse Jane packed a basket of
lunch. Uncle Wiggily and Uncle Butter carried it on a long pole. The
rabbit gentleman brought a trap to catch bad chaps. Baby Bunty saw the
two friends skipping along. “Let us follow them,” she whispered to the
animal boys. In the woods, Uncle Wiggily built a fire and Uncle Butter
opened the basket.

[Illustration: BABY BUNTY TOLD THE BOYS ABOUT UNCLE WIGGILY’S PICNIC.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

“Uncle Wiggily didn’t invite us to his picnic,” barked Jackie Bow Wow.
“No, but I think he would like to have us, just the same,” laughed Baby
Bunty. “Come on—let’s go!” While the animal children were skipping
through the woods to the picnic place, Uncle Wiggily was putting up a
tent. “For we may want to stay all night,” he said to Uncle Butter.
“Yes,” agreed the goat, “and I’ll go get some water.” Uncle Wiggily was
putting some evergreen boughs in the tent to make a soft bed when he saw
Uncle Butter fall down with the pail of water. “Baa-a-a-a! Baa-a-a-a!”
bleated the goat. “I am soaking wet!” Uncle Wiggily said: “Go in the
tent, Uncle Butter; I’ll help you take off your wet clothes and we’ll
hang them up to dry.” While the bunny and goat were in the tent, along
came Baby Bunty and the others. “Oh, what a wonderful lunch Uncle
Wiggily has left,” she cried. “I guess he doesn’t want it, so we will
take it.”

[Illustration: “OH, WHAT A WONDERFUL LUNCH!” CRIED BABY BUNTY.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Uncle Wiggily was so busy in the tent, helping Uncle Butter take off his
wet clothes, that neither of them heard Baby Bunty take away the lunch
basket. “I have had a bath,” laughed the goat, “and now I am hungry.” He
went out to hang up his dripping coat and trousers. “We shall eat our
lunch as soon as I set the trap to catch any bad animals who may come to
spoil our picnic,” spoke Uncle Wiggily. But when he looked for the lunch
basket—it was gone! “Oh, dear me!” cried the bunny rabbit. “I did not
set the trap soon enough!” Uncle Butter bleated sadly, for he was
hungry. “Never mind,” he said. “We can go in the tent and sleep and make
believe we have eaten. Afterward we can get more picnic lunch from Nurse
Jane.” While Uncle Wiggily and Uncle Butter were asleep, a big, black
Bear shuffled along. “Wuff! Wuff!” growled the Bear, when he saw the
spring trap. “Perhaps this is something good to eat,” he growled louder.

[Illustration: “PERHAPS THIS IS SOMETHING GOOD TO EAT,” GROWLED THE
BEAR.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

After smelling at the trap the bear growled: “This isn’t anything good
to eat! I will kick it out of my way and go inside the tent. There I may
find some cake.” The bear kicked the trap, but, suddenly it snapped
together, catching him fast. “Oh, Wowzie scowzie!” howled the bear. He
jumped up and his hat flew off. In the tent Uncle Wiggily and Uncle
Butter were awakened by the howls of the shaggy fellow. “Oh, ho!” cried
the rabbit. “There is the bad chap who took our lunch basket, Uncle
Butter! He is caught in my trap.” The bear, dancing on one paw, growled:
“I am not bad! I didn’t take your lunch basket! I never even saw it!”
Then over the hill came Baby Bunty and the boy animals with the lunch.
They had only tasted it. So Uncle Wiggily set a table for the children,
and one for Uncle Butter, the Good Bear and himself. Then the bunny
uncle and the goat went to the ninety-nine cent store, bought scooters,
and rode home.

[Illustration: THE BUNNY UNCLE AND GOAT BOUGHT SCOOTERS AND RODE HOME.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

About a week after this, when Uncle Wiggily was ready for some more
adventures, the ragged old Bob Cat, with his silly little tail, danced
up to the woodland cave of the Bushy Bear. “I know how we can catch
Uncle Wiggily!” snarled the Bob Cat. “How?” growled the Bear. “We can
hide in a cave and make funny noises,” mewed the Bob Cat. “Uncle Wiggily
will hop in to see what the noises are, and we can catch him and nibble
his ears!” The Bear laughed and said it was a good trick. Now while the
Bob Cat and the Bear were hiding themselves in the cave, Floppy
Twistytail, and Billie Wagtail, dressed themselves up like pirates, with
pistols and swords. Then they made a sailing raft and invited Uncle
Wiggily for a ride. “I’ll be a pirate, too!” laughed the bunny. With his
sword and pistol he boarded the raft. “Yo ho! Sail to the pirate cave!”
cried Uncle Wiggily. After sailing a while, the pirates went ashore to
eat.

[Illustration: AFTER A WHILE THE PIRATES WENT ASHORE TO EAT.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

“When are we going to look for that pirate cave you told us about, Uncle
Wiggily?” grunted Curly. “Oh, pretty soon now,” answered the bunny
gentleman. “I’ll warm this lollypop soup for you, and then we can go
adventuring.” After eating their lunch, the piggie boy and the goat chap
set off with Uncle Wiggily to go through the woods. They wore their
swords and pistols just like pirates. All of a sudden, Uncle Wiggily saw
a hole under the side of a hill. “Ho for the pirate cave!” shouted the
rabbit. “Halt!” grunted Floppy, drawing his sword. “Who is first going
into that cave?” Billie bleated: “You go in, Floppy, as you are very
brave!” This pleased the piggie boy, and into the cave he went. But soon
he came rushing out again, dropping his pistol. “What’s the matter?”
cried Uncle Wiggily. “Oh, there’s a big, black pirate in the cave! He
threw a rock at me!” squealed Floppy. “You go in now, Billie!” said
Uncle Wiggily.

[Illustration: “YOU GO IN NOW, BILLIE!” SAID UNCLE WIGGILY.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

When Floppy caught his breath, which nearly got away from him as he
rushed out of the cave, Uncle Wiggily said, after he had twinkled his
pink nose: “Now, we must stop and think what is best to do. Form in
line, my brave pirates!” Then, after thinking, and twiddling his ears,
the bunny told Billie it was his turn to go in the cave and capture the
Black Pirate that Floppy had seen. Into the cave went the goat boy.
“Billie can stick the Black Pirate with his horns!” grunted Floppy.
Billie disappeared into the cave. Then Uncle Wiggily and the pig heard a
cry of: “Baa-a-a-a-a!” Head over heels Billie came flying out of the
cave. “Oh, did the Black Pirate chase you?” asked the little pig, as he
poured water on Billie’s head to cool him off. “Now it is my turn to
capture the Black Pirate!” cried the brave rabbit. With his sword and
pistol he started for the cave. The Grasshopper loaded his cannon.
Inside the cave sat the Bob Cat and Bear.

[Illustration: INSIDE THE CAVE SAT THE BOB CAT AND BEAR.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Of course Uncle Wiggily didn’t know who was in the cave. He had heard
Floppy speak of the Black Pirate. “Maybe it is Neddie Stubtail, the boy
bear, playing a trick,” thought the bunny uncle. But no sooner had he
gone inside the cave, than Floppy and Billie, waiting outside, heard
some funny noises. There were growls, squeals and grunts. “Oh, look!”
cried Floppy, and he and Billie, looking, saw a blast of sticks and
stones coming from the cave. “I guess Uncle Wiggily is having trouble!”
grunted Floppy. “I guess the same!” bleated Billie. Then more noises,
sticks and stones came from the cave. And all of a quickness, when the
boys were thinking of sending for the Police Dog, out of the cave came
Uncle Wiggily. Before him he drove the Bob Cat and Bear. He had fought
them in the cave and tied them. “Ha! Ha!” laughed Uncle Wiggily. “You
thought you’d catch me! But I caught you!” And so his adventure ended.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected obvious typographical errors and variations in
      spelling.
 2. Retained archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
